So with our post schema and model created, we can use that to actually create javascript objects based
on that model which ultimately allow us to do one magic trick.
So first of all without the magic, let's create a post object.
Thus far in our app post route here, so API posts where we handle that post request, we only extract the
post data and we console log it to,
well the console.
Yeah that's nice but not really all we want to do right,
instead it would be better if we could store it to the database and we'll use our post model for that
because the post model created with mongoose will actually be the bridge from our nodejs
express app and its code to the mongodb database without us writing any mongo code or anything
like that.
So first of all what I'll do here is I'll import something, I'll import my post model and you can name
this however you want but the convention is to also use a capital starting character here to indicate that
this allows you to define a new object based on, well some blueprint and that blueprint is our schema
combined with the model of course.
So now we can require that and we require it from that file in the models folder, so from the posts file
without an extension in the models folder.
So now we got that post constant here,
now we can use that constant in our posts route to create a new post based on our body data.
So what I'll do here is I'll actually create a new post like that,
that's pretty cool, we can instantiate this because it turns out what the model method gives us
here is simply a constructor function which allows us to construct a new javascript object and to that
post model here, we pass in a javascript object where we, well pass the data we need for our schema,
so we pass in a javascript object which has a title and a content.
So let's do that, let's pass the title here, title will be request body title because that is what we
get sent to this endpoint and the content should be request body content
and now we have a post object that's actually managed by mongoose and that's pretty close to being
connectable to the database.
So let's comment out this password which we'll need soon and let's save everything and let's restart
all our servers.
So remember, we bring up our nodejs server by running start server,
so let's copy that, npm run start server
and in a separate terminal window, we start our local angular server with ngServe.
With that up and running,
let's give this a try and let's add a new post here with some awesome content
and let's hit that save post button
and now let's go to our server side log
and here, we indeed see this object is getting logged and you can already see one cool thing,
it has that ID. Remember I mentioned that this would be generated automatically by mongoose,
so we have that ID already,
besides that it looks like a normal javascript object but actually it isn't,
we can do way more with it,
we can use that object to directly save it to our mongo database.
There's just one thing missing,
we need to have a mongo database connected to our node app and whilst we have a mongo database up and
running, by now at least it should be running, this one, we haven't connected our app yet.
So time to do that in the next lecture.